doc: design specification for virtual host style for RGW buckets (#13022)
rook/rook: design/ceph/object/store.md

    port: 80
    securePort: 443
    instances: 3
    hosting:
      dnsNames:
      - "http://rook-ceph-rgw-my-store.rook-ceph.svc:80"

>       - "http://my-ingress.mydomain.com"

Reviewer: We need some clarification here. I haven't seen any ceph docs that suggest that the DNS name should have `http(s)://` or a port spec. I have only seen `x.y.z`, and that's it. Where are you getting information that DNS names can have `http://` or a port? 

Here: https://access.redhat.com/documentation/en-us/red_hat_ceph_storage/2/html/object_gateway_guide_for_ubuntu/configuration#setting_up_the_gateway

Here: https://docs.ceph.com/en/latest/radosgw/s3/commons/#bucket-and-host-name

Here: https://documentation.suse.com/ses/7/html/ses-all/cha-ceph-gw.html#ogw-s3-interface-access

Here: https://www.ibm.com/docs/en/storage-ceph/6?topic=configuration-add-wildcard-dns

Reviewer 2: right. this is just a dns name, not a url with protocol or port number

Reviewer: @thotz please update the design doc to note this. 

We might want to also do input validation to ensure that this only has valid hostname characters. This is codified by RFC-1123, and there is a k8s apimachinery library to validate values: `IsDNS1123Subdomain()`

Reviewer: I don't see anything in the design about validating inputs to valid DNS-1123 hostnames, or mention that it needs to be communicated to users in the docs when implemented.

- `securePort`: The service port where the RGW service will be listening (https)
- `instances`: The number of RGW pods that will be started for this object store
- `placement`: The rgw pods can be given standard Kubernetes placement restrictions with `nodeAffinity`, `tolerations`, `podAffinity`, `podAntiAffinity`, and `topologySpreadConstraints` similar to placement defined for daemons configured by the [cluster CRD](/deploy/examples/cluster.yaml).

> - `hostnames`: A list of hostnames to use for accessing the bucket directly like a subdomain in the endpoint. For example if the default service endpoint `rook-ceph-rgw-ocs-storagecluster-cephobjectstore.openshift-storage.svc:80` added and objectstore contains a bucket name `sample`, then s3 style dns domain would be `http://sample.rook-ceph-rgw-ocs-storagecluster-cephobjectstore.openshift-storage.svc:80`

Reviewer 3: Let's use upstream example names
```suggestion
- `hostnames`: A list of hostnames to use for accessing the bucket directly like a subdomain in the endpoint. For example if the default service endpoint `rook-ceph-rgw-my-store.rook-ceph.svc:80` added and the object store contains a bucket named `sample`, then the s3 style dns domain would be `http://sample.rook-ceph-rgw-my-store.rook-ceph.svc:80`
```

Reviewer 3: To have the DNS subdomain style for buckets, every bucket will require an entry in this list of `hostnames`, correct? Could we automate this with another setting? For example, if there was a setting `enableDNSSubdomains`, then every time a COSI bucket is provisioned, we could automatically create the subdomain for that bucket?

Reviewer: I like Travis' idea here. If this feature is for per-bucket access, then it seems to me like Rook should either create an endpoint for every bucket created via OBC, or (and?) Rook should allow users to specify the bucket that is addressed via the endpoint. Or is the bucket that is referenced always going to be `<bucket-name>.<subdomain>`?

Reviewer: Also, I have to say that `hostnames` seems like a confusing choice of naming convention. I think for advanced features, it is probably easiest for users if the terminology Rook uses matches 1-to-1 with terminology that Ceph uses.

I'm looking at the red hat doc here: https://access.redhat.com/documentation/en-us/red_hat_ceph_storage/2/html/object_gateway_guide_for_ubuntu/configuration#configuring_the_dns)

```
[client.rgw.<STATIC-SITE-HOSTNAME>]
...
rgw_enable_static_website = true
rgw_enable_apis = s3website
rgw_dns_name = objects-zonegroup.domain.com
rgw_dns_s3website_name = objects-website-zonegroup.domain.com
rgw_resolve_cname = true
...
```

I don't see "hostname" only as "static site hostname", but there are many configurables, and this design doc does not adequately detail what Rook should actually be doing.

From looking at this doc, maybe a struct like this is needed per-RGW.
```
staticWebHosting:
  enabled: <bool>
  siteHostname: <string>
  dnsName: <string> 
  dnsS3WebsiteName: <string>
```

But what about multisite? What about the multiple-objectstore-per-zone setups? Should these configs be on the zone? Or, since these are applied to the zonegroup, should they be on the zonegroup itself?

I also don't understand how `rgw_dns_name` fits into the equation. Is this actually a subdomain that should go in the config? Is it a per-RGW hostname? Is it a load balancer? I think this is a failing of the Ceph docs that it is unclear how to use the feature to accomplish the end goal.

Ultimately, I think Travis and I need quite a bit more information to help fit this Ceph feature into Rook's architecture. I think you have ideas about what needs to be implemented to achieve this feature, but they aren't all communicated in the design. This is a shortcoming that I have observed with designs in the past. 

Regardless of who is planning a new, complex feature, Travis and I need the design to break the design into parts and detail them clearly so that we can consider all aspects of the planning for Rook. We've seen that even simple features can create long-lasting code maintenance challenges if they are not planned and implemented carefully, and the work that needs to be done for RGW seems to only be complicated these days. If a feature isn't planned carefully, code reviews take a very long time, everyone gets exhausted, and all sorts of issues are more likely to make it into code. We really want to avoid all of that, and that is why we are so insistent on having better quality designs before work begins.

Please consider this here, and for all future designs as well. Design work is quite challenging, but it is critical for long-term success of projects and features. 

With every design, we need to understand:
1. what the end goal of the feature is, as understood by users
2. how Ceph needs to be configured to achieve the user's end goals
3. what the scope of the Ceph changes is
    * per-bucket, per-RGW, per-objectstore, per-zone, per-zonegroup, etc.
    * there may be multiple scopes
5. a detailed plan for CRD configuration changes
    * this is the user-facing API, and it's critical that we plan for forward and backward compatibility, otherwise future changes can be awkward
6. a delineation of what Rook will do automatically and what users will do themselves
7. a plan for breaking up the work into sub-parts (if possible)
    * smaller changesets will make it through code review faster and with less exhaustion
    * e.g., users will create this thing in the first implementation, then Rook will do it automatically in a follow-up
8. noteworthy alternative designs that were rejected, and why they were rejected
9. drawbacks and limitations of the current design
   * e.g., corner cases that are unsupported, or future design work needed

For object store, I think we are also always concerned about how new features affect multi-site. Especially the use-case that I mentioned where a user might run 2 CephObjectStores for 1 CephObjectZone where one store is used for client traffic and the other store is used for multisite replication traffic. This stands out to me as one of the most complex scenarios, so I think it's a good one to examine for every design.
A user helped enable this usage pattern here: https://github.com/rook/rook/pull/12560

Reviewer: @thotz please address this comment in full. I see that you marked it as resolved without addressing the items, and I spent a lot of time to lay out clear expectations and explain why they are important.

Author: > * his is the user-facing API, and it's critical that we plan for forward and backward compatibility, otherwise future changes can be awkward

Please note the doc which you are referring is RHCS 2.0 earlier version of ceph, in the latest docs RHCS 6.0, these steps are removed and the hostname configuration in the zonegroup and configure DNS server separately to the dynamic bucket endpoint using wildcard entry. Nothing additional configured in the RGW side. Naming part even I am not convinced much. But its is transparent with zonegroup configuration n Ceph

Reviewer: `hostname` is really not a unique way of identifying this feature, even if it is transparent with zonegroup. The word "hostname" conflicts with so many concepts in so many parts of Ceph, Rook, and Kubernetes that I really don't think we should use it unless it's as a sub-field of some other struct. Also, Rook configures an "object store" that has RGWs, and the zone group JSON is abstracted away for the most part.

I'm still really struggling with what is happening in this design, and I'm very confused. The RHCS 6 docs don't even say what the feature is called. Only "Add a wildcard to the DNS" with the description "You can add the wildcard such as hostname to the DNS record of the DNS server." That doesn't really explain to me what the feature is supposed to do, only how to achieve something that has no clear purpose to me.

It also tells me nothing about buckets, which is part of the title of this PR.

However, the "Static Web Hosting" docs in another section do talk about buckets, and that doc matches what I wrote 3 weeks ago. https://access.redhat.com/documentation/en-us/red_hat_ceph_storage/6/html/object_gateway_guide/basic-configuration#static-web-hosting-gateway-setup-rgw

The [original issue](https://github.com/rook/rook/issues/4780) that this design is purporting to solve specifically mentions the `rgw-dns-name` field which is documented at the "Static Web Hosting" link I just gave.

I am, at this point, extremely confused and generally convinced that this design is not addressing what was requested in https://github.com/rook/rook/issues/4780.

    instances: 1
```

#### Hostname Configuration

> These hostnames will be added to the zonegroup's hostname list and objectstore can be accessed only by the hostname from the list. If the feature is enabled, users need to add the all the endpoints like the openshift route, ingress loadbalancer and k8s service endpoint created by Rook to the list. The hostname list can be updated at any time by updating the object store CRD. Even though settings related to `zonegroup` to make consistent for single and multisite use case it is added to the object store CRD. After creating the object store, the Rook operator will update the zonegroup to include the `hostnames` to its list via `radosgw-admin` command.

Reviewer 3: > the Rook operator will update the zonegroup to include the `hostnames` to its list via `radosgw-admin` command.

Please also show an example command of how the operator can add the hostname to the list.

This is different from `customEndpoints` which is used for configuring the object store to replicate and sync data amongst Multisite. The `customEndpoints` are not added to the zonegroup's hostname list.

> The user need to create `DNS entry` for the hostname appending wildcard `*` like `*.rook-ceph-rgw-ocs-storagecluster-cephobjectstore.openshift-storage.svc:80 IN CNAME rook-ceph-rgw-ocs-storagecluster-cephobjectstore.openshift-storage.svc:80`. Same is applicable for TLS certs otherwise buckets won't be able to accessed via this endpoint.

Reviewer 3: I don't see how Rook can create DNS entries. We need to find a way to use the K8s services for this.

Reviewer: Right. I wonder if this should be left up to users. I think Rook could probably do this for Services (Rook would likely need to expose some service config options to users), but I'm not sure if OpenShift users would prefer to use Routes to create endpoints. It seems like it might be easiest to start with a design where this is assumed to be done by users, and then we can look for opportunities to do it automatically with Rook once we get feedback. 

IMO, services are such a simple building block in K8s that once we start allowing users to configure them (via passthru options in CRDs), we've basically made it necessary for the users to define more than half of the service itself. Plus, Rook has to document how users can find the services it creates that correlate to each hostname. It seems like it could be a better experience for everyone if Rook allows users to just do that themselves:
- we don't need to plan our design around user corner cases like service type or Route usage
- users won't feel confused about what the service name will be for each config they input
- users can define their own specialized service names if they want to, that are likely easier for them to remember

    instances: 1
```

> - `dnsNames`: A list of hostnames to use for accessing the bucket directly like a subdomain in the endpoint. For example if the default service endpoint `rook-ceph-rgw-my-store.rook-ceph.svc:80` added and the object store contains a bucket named `sample`, then the s3 [virtual host style](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonS3/latest/userguide/VirtualHosting.html) would be `http://sample.rook-ceph-rgw-my-store.rook-ceph.svc:80`. More details about the feature can be found in [Ceph Documentation](https://docs.ceph.com/en/latest/radosgw/s3/commons/#bucket-and-host-name)

Reviewer: The spec here is still referencing the field as though users should input `http://<hostname>:port`. Please fix

Reviewer: Also, let's move this to be with the virtual host style access for buckets below. It seems strange to me to have this in two places, especially when this section gives the impression that `dnsNames` is a top-level field, rather than nested under `hosting`.

> - `dnsNames`: A list of hostnames to use for accessing the bucket directly like a subdomain in the endpoint. For example if the default service endpoint `rook-ceph-rgw-my-store.rook-ceph.svc:80` added and the object store contains a bucket named `sample`, then the s3 [virtual host style](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonS3/latest/userguide/VirtualHosting.html) would be `http://sample.rook-ceph-rgw-my-store.rook-ceph.svc:80`. More details can about the feature can be found in [Ceph Documentation]()https://docs.ceph.com/en/latest/radosgw/s3/commons/#bucket-and-host-name

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `dnsNames`: A list of hostnames to use for accessing the bucket directly like a subdomain in the endpoint. For example if the default service endpoint `rook-ceph-rgw-my-store.rook-ceph.svc:80` added and the object store contains a bucket named `sample`, then the s3 [virtual host style](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonS3/latest/userguide/VirtualHosting.html) would be `http://sample.rook-ceph-rgw-my-store.rook-ceph.svc:80`. More details can about the feature can be found in [Ceph Documentation](https://docs.ceph.com/en/latest/radosgw/s3/commons/#bucket-and-host-name)
```

> - `dnsNames`: A list of hostnames to use for accessing the bucket directly like a subdomain in the endpoint. For example if the default service endpoint `rook-ceph-rgw-my-store.rook-ceph.svc:80` added and the object store contains a bucket named `sample`, then the s3 [virtual host style](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonS3/latest/userguide/VirtualHosting.html) would be `http://sample.rook-ceph-rgw-my-store.rook-ceph.svc:80`. More details can about the feature can be found in [Ceph Documentation](https://docs.ceph.com/en/latest/radosgw/s3/commons/#bucket-and-host-name)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `dnsNames`: A list of hostnames to use for accessing the bucket directly like a subdomain in the endpoint. For example if the default service endpoint `rook-ceph-rgw-my-store.rook-ceph.svc:80` added and the object store contains a bucket named `sample`, then the s3 [virtual host style](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonS3/latest/userguide/VirtualHosting.html) would be `http://sample.rook-ceph-rgw-my-store.rook-ceph.svc:80`. More details about the feature can be found in [Ceph Documentation](https://docs.ceph.com/en/latest/radosgw/s3/commons/#bucket-and-host-name)
```

  gateway:
    caBundleRef: #ldaps-cabundle
```

### Virtual Host Style access for buckets

The Ceph Object Gateway supports accessing buckets using [virtual host style](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonS3/latest/userguide/VirtualHosting.html) which allows accessing buckets using the bucket name as a subdomain in the endpoint. The user can configure the option via `radosgw-admin` like below:

```sh
# ceph config set client.rgw.mystore.a rgw_dns_name http://my-ingress.mydomain.com,rook-ceph-rgw-my-store.rook-ceph.svc
```

> The user need to restart the RGW pods for the changes to take effect. Also multiple endpoints can be added to the list separated by comma. This is supported from Ceph Reef release(v18.0) onwards. This is different from `customEndpoints` which is used for configuring the object store to replicate and sync data amongst Multisite. For accessing the bucket point user need to configure wildcard dns in the cluster using [ingress loadbalancer](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/services-networking/ingress/#hostname-wildcards) or in openshift cluster use [dns operator](https://docs.openshift.com/container-platform/4.9/networking/dns-operator.html). Same for TLS certificate, user need to configure the TLS certificate for the wildcard dns for the RGW endpoint. This option won't be enabled by default, user need to enable it by adding the `hosting` section in the `Gateway` settings:

Reviewer: I have already suggested that Rook should apply the `--rgw-dns-name="comma,separated,list"` to the RGW deployment so that they are restarted automatically, requiring no user action.

>  The hostname should valid characters codified by RFC-1123, and Rook Operator can perform input validation using k8s apimachinery `IsDNS1123Subdomain()`. Multiple endpoints can be added to the list separated by comma. But when the support is added Rook operator need to pass this arguments to RGW daemon by the flag `--rgw-dns-name`. This is supported from Ceph Reef release(v18.0) onwards. This is different from `customEndpoints` which is used for configuring the object store to replicate and sync data amongst Multisite. For accessing the bucket point user need to configure wildcard dns in the cluster using [ingress loadbalancer](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/services-networking/ingress/#hostname-wildcards) or in openshift cluster use [dns operator](https://docs.openshift.com/container-platform/4.9/networking/dns-operator.html). Same for TLS certificate, user need to configure the TLS certificate for the wildcard dns for the RGW endpoint. This option won't be enabled by default, user need to enable it by adding the `hosting` section in the `Gateway` settings:

Reviewer: This is kind of a huge blob of ideas all on one line. Let's separate these for clarity. 

Also, we should capture the reason why we are using the `--rgw-dns-name` flag instead of using the mon config store.

```suggestion
Multiple hostnames can be added to the list separated by comma. Each entry must be a valid RFC-1123 hostname, and Rook Operator will perform input validation using k8s apimachinery `IsDNS1123Subdomain()`. 

When `rgw_dns_name` is changed for an RGW cluster, all RGWs need to be restarted. To enforce this in Rook, we can apply the `--rgw-dns-name` flag, which will restart RGWs with no user action needed. This is supported from Ceph Reef release(v18.0) onwards. 

This is different from `customEndpoints` which is used for configuring the object store to replicate and sync data amongst Multisite. 

For accessing the bucket point user need to configure wildcard dns in the cluster using [ingress loadbalancer](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/services-networking/ingress/#hostname-wildcards) or in openshift cluster use [dns operator](https://docs.openshift.com/container-platform/4.9/networking/dns-operator.html). Same for TLS certificate, user need to configure the TLS certificate for the wildcard dns for the RGW endpoint. This option won't be enabled by default, user need to enable it by adding the `hosting` section in the `Gateway` settings:
```

```yaml
spec:
  gateway:

>     hosting:

Reviewer: Please move this to `spec.hosting`, as hosting applies to the CephObjectStore entirely, and not just gateways.

      dnsNames:
      - "rook-ceph-rgw-my-store.rook-ceph.svc"
      - "my-ingress.mydomain.com"
```

> The user need to add all the required endpoints like the default k8s service endpoint, otherwise access to the bucket will fail. When this feature is enabled the endpoint in OBCs and COSI Bucket Access will be updated to virtual host style. The config map of the OBC and BucketInfo will look like below:

Reviewer: Is this actually true? The default service does not support wildcards, so how is this going to work? 

AFAIU from my Q&A with @cbodley and Kyle Bader, the RGW will still respond to requests from other domains, but those domains will not support virtual-host style bucket addressing.

Author: ```
$ ceph config get client.rgw.mystore.a
WHO                   MASK  LEVEL     OPTION                   VALUE        RO
global                      basic     log_to_file              false          
global                      advanced  mon_allow_pool_delete    true           
global                      advanced  mon_allow_pool_size_one  true           
global                      advanced  mon_cluster_log_file                    
client.rgw.mystore.a        advanced  rgw_dns_name             rgw.example  *
$ curl http://minikube:30802
<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><Error><Code>NoSuchBucket</Code><Message></Message><BucketName>minikube</BucketName><RequestId>tx0000017a48b1a88bf1f0f-006569d164-215fb-my-store</RequestId><HostId>215fb-my-store-my-store</HostId></Error>[jiffin@fedora ~]$  
[jiffin@fedora ~]$ curl http://192.168.49.2:30802
<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><ListAllMyBucketsResult xmlns="http://s3.amazonaws.com/doc/2006-03-01/"><Owner><ID>anonymous</ID><DisplayName></DisplayName></Owner><Buckets></Buckets></ListAllMyBucketsResult>
[jiffin@fedora ~]$ curl http://rgw.example
<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><ListAllMyBucketsResult xmlns="http://s3.amazonaws.com/doc/2006-03-01/"><Owner><ID>anonymous</ID><DisplayName></DisplayName></Owner><Buckets></Buckets></ListAllMyBucketsResult>[jiffin@fedora ~]
```
The IPs are working fine but only mentioned hostname listed in `rgw_dns_name` is working fine

Reviewer 2: > From the bug, it seems like the functionality may depend on the rgw_resolve_cname setting right?

there's an `if (g_conf()->rgw_resolve_cname` block just above that handles that, but the [block](https://github.com/ceph/ceph/blob/122c6b2/src/rgw/rgw_rest.cc#L2140-L2156) i linked above applies when that resolve-cname logic isn't successful

whenever the list of hostnames (from rgw_dns_name/rgw_dns_s3website_name etc) is non-empty, any requests with a non-matching host header are treated as vhost-style, using the entire host as the bucket name

Reviewer: I feel like I'm still getting conflicting information, but maybe something is lost.

@thotz, if you remove `rook-ceph-rgw-my-store.rook-ceph.svc` from `dnsNames`, can you still use path-style access using the service endpoint?

I don't see a specific answer to that in your replies.

Author: Yes, in the above example, I have only set `rgw.example` as rgw_dns_name. `rook-ceph-rgw-my-store.rook-ceph.svc` is not in the list for rgw_dns_names

Reviewer: Okay. I think that behavior is more clear, and more ideal. But we probably want some kind of assurance from Ceph that the behavior will remain consistent.

@cbodley is there a way to update the comments in the file you linked to be more clear about that behavior and to note that it is intended? Maybe link to this discussion? 

It seems to me like the `rgw_resolve_cname` can (maybe) control whether to allow path-style for "unknown" hosts in the header.

Reviewer 2: something isn't consistent here.. in a local vstart setup, i started radosgw with `--rgw-dns-name example.com` and was unable to use path-style access as `localhost`:
```
~/ceph/build $ curl http://localhost:8000
<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><Error><Code>NoSuchBucket</Code><Message></Message><BucketName>localhost</BucketName><RequestId>tx000002ac365575957c0f4-0065735463-4142-default</RequestId><HostId>4142-default-default</HostId></Error>
```
the radosgw log shows that localhost was interpreted as a bucket name:
```
2023-12-08T12:37:39.142-0500 7f3d0a4ee6c0 20 req 3081417995887034612 0.000000000s final domain/bucket subdomain=localhost domain= in_hosted_domain=1 in_hosted_domain_s3website=0 s->info.domain= s->info.request_uri=/localhost/
...
2023-12-08T12:37:39.143-0500 7f3d08ceb6c0 10 req 3081417995887034612 0.001000032s s->object=<NULL> s->bucket=localhost
```

Author: Yeah, that was a typo from my end instead of using `client.rgw.my.store.a` I have used `client.rgw.mystore.a` so the option was not set properly on the server. After enabling the `rgw_dns_name` name option, only the domain set mentioned in the list was accessible for the RGW server. Other domain names were failing but IPs are working fine.

options set on the rgw server:
```bash
$ ceph config get client.rgw.my.store.a
WHO                    MASK  LEVEL     OPTION                      VALUE        RO
client.rgw.my.store.a        advanced  debug_rgw                   20/20          
global                       basic     log_to_file                 false          
global                       advanced  mon_allow_pool_delete       true           
global                       advanced  mon_allow_pool_size_one     true           
global                       advanced  mon_cluster_log_file                       
client.rgw.my.store.a        advanced  rgw_dns_name              rook-ceph-rgw-my-store.rook-ceph.svc,rgw.example * 
client.rgw.my.store.a        advanced  rgw_enable_usage_log        true           
client.rgw.my.store.a        advanced  rgw_log_nonexistent_bucket  true           
client.rgw.my.store.a        advanced  rgw_log_object_name_utc     true           
client.rgw.my.store.a        advanced  rgw_run_sync_thread         true           
client.rgw.my.store.a        advanced  rgw_zone                    my-store     * 
client.rgw.my.store.a        advanced  rgw_zonegroup               my-store     * 
```

```bash

bash-4.4$ curl http://rook-ceph-rgw-my-store.rook-ceph.svc:80  --> default rgw service
<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><ListAllMyBucketsResult xmlns="http://s3.amazonaws.com/doc/2006-03-01/"><Owner><ID>anonymous</ID><DisplayName></DisplayName></Owner><Buckets></Buckets></ListAllMyBucketsResult>bash-4.4$ 
bash-4.4$ curl http://rgw.example  --> ingress service
<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><ListAllMyBucketsResult xmlns="http://s3.amazonaws.com/doc/2006-03-01/"><Owner><ID>anonymous</ID><DisplayName></DisplayName></Owner><Buckets></Buckets></ListAllMyBucketsResult>bash-4.4$ 
bash-4.4$ 
bash-4.4$ curl http://minikube:30802 --> minikube host Nodeport
<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><Error><Code>NoSuchBucket</Code><Message></Message><BucketName>minikube</BucketName><RequestId>tx000001e15844eb4ed0c58-006576f3a9-2b42c-my-store</RequestId><HostId>2b42c-my-store-my-store</HostId></Error>bash-4.4$ 
bash-4.4$ 
bash-4.4$ curl http://rook-ceph-rgw-my-store-external:80 --> rgw service exposed via Nodeport
<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><Error><Code>NoSuchBucket</Code><Message></Message><BucketName>rook-ceph-rgw-my-store-external</BucketName><RequestId>tx00000c367e30625370aa8-006576f3d6-2b42c-my-store</RequestId><HostId>2b42c-my-store-my-store</HostId></Error>bash-4.4$ 
```

IPs
```bash
$ curl  http://10.110.235.14:80 --> rook-ceph-rgw-my-store.rook-ceph.svc
<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><ListAllMyBucketsResult xmlns="http://s3.amazonaws.com/doc/2006-03-01/"><Owner><ID>anonymous</ID><DisplayName></DisplayName></Owner><Buckets></Buckets></ListAllMyBucketsResult>bash-4.4$ 
bash-4.4$ 
bash-4.4$ 
bash-4.4$ curl  http://10.100.253.62:80 --> rook-ceph-rgw-my-store-external
<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><ListAllMyBucketsResult xmlns="http://s3.amazonaws.com/doc/2006-03-01/"><Owner><ID>anonymous</ID><DisplayName></DisplayName></Owner><Buckets></Buckets></ListAllMyBucketsResult>bash-4.4$ 
bash-4.4$ 
bash-4.4$ 
bash-4.4$ curl  http://192.168.49.2:30802 --> minikube host
<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><ListAllMyBucketsResult xmlns="http://s3.amazonaws.com/doc/2006-03-01/"><Owner><ID>anonymous</ID><DisplayName></DisplayName></Owner><Buckets></Buckets></ListAllMyBucketsResult>bash-4.4$ 
bash-4.4$ 
```

Reviewer: Okay. We may want to plan for a helper in Rook then to auto-add the service if it exists. @travisn what are your thoughts?

Reviewer 2: customEndpoints has the externally-routable names for multisite sync, right? sync uses path-style access, so setting rgw_dns_name to something else would break that. sounds like we'd want to add the customEndpoint names too

Reviewer: @thotz I think what Casey and I are trying to get at here is that Rook should plan to automatically add the service endpoint (when the object store is in internal mode) and add the hostname component of all `customEndpoints` set on the CephObjectZone when any `dnsNames` are set to help users out. 

I think it also makes sense to do list deduplication as well in case users take it upon themselves to add those.

Please add detailed plans for those points to the design.

Travis and I will be on PTO for the upcoming Christmas holiday, so there is ample time for that.
